-*- Mode: text; fill-column: 70 -*-

omake is designed to build itself.  Of course you must be wondering
how we build in the first place!

If you already have a working copy of omake (for instance, by
downloading and installing it from somewhere else like
omake.metaprl.org), then you should use your working copy to do the
bootstrap.

Otherwise, let's assume you do don't have omake already installed and
you want to build it.

-- Bootstrapping --

Bootstrapping is setup to use "make" or "nmake".  By using one of
these other tools, you can build a limited byte-code version of omake
that you can then use to complete the install.

   NOTE: The bootstrap uses the file src/Makefile and src/Makefile.nt
   with default options, like CC=cc.  If something goes wrong, you can
   edit these files by hand to suit your taste.  However, the
   src/Makefiles are generated, and they will be clobbered when you
   run omake for the first time.  To be safe, if you decide to modify
   them, save your changes in some safe place, not /tmp.

-- Unix, MacOS X, Cygwin bootstrap --

You can use "make" to build a bootstrap version of omake.  Run

   % make bootstrap

to build the omake-boot executable.  This should work with classic
make; there should be no need to use GNU make.  If you have it, GNU
make will work fine.

If you are going to compile OMake with the default options, you can
use make to both bootstrap and build omake: 

   % make all

or even bootstrap, build, and install it:

   % make install

Environment variables:
 - PREFIX (make all, make install) specifies the prefix for OMake
   installation (defaults to /usr/local)
 - LIBDIR (make all, make install) specifies the location for OMake
   library directory (defaults to $PREFIX/lib)
 - BINDIR (make install) specifies the location for OMake binaries
   (defaults to $PREFIX/bin)
 - INSTALL_ROOT (make install) specifies a "packaging root" for the
   installation. Namely, omake will be installed under 
   $INSTALL_ROOT/$LIBDIR and $INSTALL_ROOT/$BINDIR, but the omake binary
   will be compiled to look for its files under $LIBDIR.

Please note that the first time OMake is built, the PREFIX, LIBDIR and
BINDIR variables are wrtten into the .config file in the root of the 
sources tree. If the .config file exists, then the variables present there
have precedence over the environment variables.

-- Win32 bootstrap --

The native Win32 build is faster than a Cygwin executable; it is
recommended.  However, no matter what you do, execution times on Win32
will be substantially longer than on Unix (I'm not sure why; I'm
guessing that Win32 is a pig).

   NOTE: Note that if you call any native executable from a Cygwin
   shell, and you signal it (for example, with control-C), Cygwin
   immediately terminates the process.  This is a well-known problem
   with Cygwin.  It also means that when you abort omake from a Cygwin
   shell, it will not have a chance to save its work.  Next time you
   run omake, it will have forgotten everything it did before you
   aborted it.  Please complain to the Cygwin people at www.cygwin.com
   if you would like this to change.  Please be nice.  They already
   know about this issue.

   One way to avoid this problem is to run omake from a dos-prompt.
   You can also run osh in a console window if you want a usable
   shell.

For a native Win32 build, you will need the native Win32 version of
OCaml, Visual C++, and the Microsoft macro assembler.  See
www.ocaml.org if you want to know where to get the macro assembler
"ml".  It once came with Visual C++, but as far as I know, this is no
longer true.

"nmake" is Microsoft's attempt at a build tool.  It is part of Visual
C++.  To run it, use the following command from a dos prompt.

   dos> nmake -f Makefile.nt bootstrap

This will build the omake-boot executable, which you can use to finish
the installation.

-- Finishing the install --

Let's assume that you have successfully created the omake-boot
executable.  To complete the install, run

   % ./omake-boot
or
   dos> omake-boot

After some configuration message, you should now get a message telling
you that a .config file was just created, and you should edit it.

You should either edit the .config, or leave it like it is.  The
defaults should be pretty reasonable for your machine, but take a look
if you are curious.

When you are ready, run omake-boot again to build the real version of
omake.

If you like, you can run

   % ./omake-boot install
or
   dos> omake-boot install

to install it.  At this point, you are done.

    NOTE: You can continue to use omake-boot for building omake, but
    you are probably better off using an installed version, or
    src/main/omake.  This is mainly for Win32, where the byte-code
    omake-boot is not nearly as fast as the native-code
    src/main/omake.
